The Heart of Blessings: A Brief Anthology of Prayers to the Lord of Uḍḍiyāna, the King, and the Twenty-Five Disciples Namo gurubhyaḥ. Those who wish to pray in a concise way to the precious master of Uḍḍiyāna and his emanations, the five tötreng families and eight manifestations, along with the twenty-five disciples, the king, and subjects, should do so as follows. I. Taking Refuge and Arousing the Awakened Mind of Bodhicitta From now until enlightenment, I and all sentient beings Take refuge in the Buddha, Dharma, and Saṅgha, and in the gurus, devas, and ḍākinīs. In order to attain perfect buddhahood for the sake of others, I arouse the heart of the awakened mind-bodhicitta-in aspiration and action! Take refuge and generate the mind of enlightenment three times. II. Visualization Before me in the sky, amidst a cloud of exquisite offerings, On a jeweled lion throne and lotus, sun, and moon-disc seat Presides my root master, Orgyen Rinpoche. His complexion is white, tinged with red; he is youthful, majestic, and radiant, In his right hand a vajra, in his left a skull cup with vase, Embracing the supreme secret consort, concealed as a khaṭvāṅga. He wears an inner gown, Dharma robes, and brocade cape, And on his head is the beautiful hat that liberates upon seeing; He sits upright, his feet crossed in the vajra posture. From his secret body, speech, and mind, amidst a mass of light and rainbow rays, The five tötreng classes, the eight manifestations, His twenty-five heart-disciples, the king and subjects, And an infinite cloud of vidyādhara gurus all stream out. Their three centers are marked by the three syllables OṂ ĀḤ HŪṂ, from which light streams out To summon the wisdom beings, who merge inseparably with them. Visualize in this way. III. Invocation ཧཱུྃ། hung HŪṂ! Padmākara, rise up! With your ḍākinī throng And sugatas of all times and all directions, care for us! Great and noble guide, Pema Tötreng Tsal, From the sacred places of vidyādharas and ḍākinīs-come now, we pray! The wisdom beings are invoked and dissolve into the visualization. IV. Seven-Branch Offering Remain upon your lion thrones, your lotus, sun, and moon-disc seats. With devotion filling body, speech, and mind, I prostrate and take refuge in you. I offer a cloud of offerings, outer, inner, secret, and unsurpassed; I confess and purify all harmful actions and obscurations of past, present, and future; I rejoice in the virtuous actions of both sublime and ordinary beings; I implore you to turn the wheel of the teachings, profound and vast; I pray that you do not pass into nirvāṇa but remain forever; And I dedicate all true merit to the complete enlightenment of all. In this way, gather the accumulations. V. Prayer to Guru Rinpoche, His Manifestations, and the Twenty-Five Disciples You are the embodiment of all the conquerors of the three times, the lord of one hundred buddha families; You rule over the four enlightened activities; You possess the power to magnetize everything that appears and exists- Padmākara, at your feet we pray! Vajra, Ratna, Padma, Karma, And Buddha-the five supreme tötreng families- And the immortal Padmākara, Padmasambhava, Loden Chogse, Pema Gyalpo Tsal, Śākya Senge, Nyima Özer, Senge Dradrok, Dorje Drolö, and the like, Assuming every kind of miraculous manifestation needed to tame beings, And embodying every source of refuge-to you we pray! Sangye Yeshe, Gyalwa Chogyang, Namkhe Nyingpo, Jñānakumāra, Yeshe Tsogyal, Palgyi Yeshe, And Palgyi Senge-to you we pray! Vairotsana, King Trisong Detsen, Yudra Nyingpo, Dorje Dudjom, Yeshe Yang, Sogpo Lhapal, And Nanam Yeshe-to you we pray! Palgyi Wangchuk, Denma Tsemang, Kawa Paltsek, Shubu Palgyi Senge, Gyalwe Lodrö, Drogben Lotsāwa, And Drenpa Namkha-to you we pray! Odren Wangchuk, Ma Rinchen Chok, Palgyi Dorje, Langdro Könchok Jungne, And Gyalwa Jangchub, who actualized the wisdom mind of the buddhas, Vidyādharas and heart-disciples-to you we pray! To you we pray, Orgyen Rinpoche! Inspire us with your blessings, assembly of vidyādhara emanations! Pacify our obstacles-inner, outer, and secret; Cause all of our aspirations to be spontaneously fulfilled; Bestow on our body, speech, and mind the four vajra empowerments; Dispel illness, maleficent spirits, harmful actions, obscurations, and obstacles into space; Grant us the siddhis of enlightened body, speech, mind, qualities, and activities; And inspire us with your blessings so as to obtain the four kāyas of complete enlightenment! Pray like this with piercing intensity. If you wish, at this point you can recite The Prayer in Seven Chapters, The Prayer (to Guru Rinpoche) That Spontaneously Fulfills All Wishes, The Prayer that Removes All Obstacles from the Path, or any other prayers you choose. VI. Mantra Recitation As the "approach" phase of the prayers, recite: OṂ ĀḤ HŪṂ VAJRA GURU PADMA SIDDHI HŪṂ as much as you can. Then, at the end: VII. Receiving the Empowerments From the four centers of the body of the vidyādhara guru, Rays of light streak out and melt into my four centers, Instilling in me the blessings of enlightened body, speech, mind, and indestructible wisdom, So that I receive the four empowerments. VIII. Dissolution Finally, the field of merit melts into light and dissolves into me. The lama's wisdom mind merges as one with my mind, and the great power of realization is perfected With saṃsāra and nirvāṇa as one taste within the all-embracing space of clear light. Let all be auspicious for the fruition-the benefit of myself and others-to mature. Receive the empowerments, and adorn the conclusion with prayers of dedication, aspiration, and auspiciousness. In accord with the prayer of a devoted one by the name of Nātha, this was written by Khyentse Wangpo, the favorite servant of the Lake-Born Guru. Siddhirastu! 
